## 讲课

#### Verification & Validation



| Criteria         | Verification                                                 | Validation                                                   |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Definition       | The process of evaluating work-products (not the actual final product 是每个阶段的产出) of a development phase to determine whether they meet the specified requirements for that phase. | The process of evaluating software during or at the end of the development process to determine whether it satisfies specified business requirements. |
| Objective        | To ensure that the product is being built according to the requirements and design specifications. In other words, to ensure that work products meet their specified requirements. | To ensure that the product actually meets the user's needs, and that the specifications were correct in the first place. In other words, to demonstrate that the product fulfils its intended use when placed in its intended environment. |
| Question         | Are we building the product right?                           | Are we building the right product?                           |
| Evaluation Items | Plans, Requirement Specs, Design Specs, Code, Test Cases     | The actual product / software.                               |
| Activities       | Reviews, Walkthroughs, Inspections                           | Testing                                                      |

http://softwaretestingfundamentals.com/verification-vs-validation/

角度不一样，对象也不一样

#### Difference between Verification and Validation

Verification: Are we building the system right?

Validation: Are we building the right system?

Verification includes all the activities associated with the producting high quality software: testing, inspection, design analysis, specification analysis, and so on. It is a relatively objective process, in that if the various products and documents are expressed precisely enough, no subjective judgements should be needed in order to verify software.

In constrast, validation is an extremely **subjective** process. It involves making subjective assessments of how well the (proposed) system addresses a real-world need. Validation includes activities such as requirements modeling, prototyping and user evaluation.



#### Verification Type

+ Reviews
+ Walkthrough
+ Inspection



#### Peer Reviews

Peer 同行，同事之间的

+ Simply giving a document to colleague and asking them to look at it closely which will identify **defects** we might never find on our own.
+ The defect here does not mean bug, it means the flaws, uncertainties, questions in the documents.
+ The purpose of technical peer reviews is to remove defects as early as possible in the development process. By removing defects at their orgin (e.g., requirements and design documents, test plans and procedures, software code, etc.)

目的是尽早地把缺陷找到和移除

Normally two persons with similar knowledge and background involved. test vs test (test plan), dev vs dev (architect plan)



#### Test Plan Peer Review

+ Coverage 覆盖率，输入框可以输入各类字符，
+ Testability 能不能测试，比如发过去用户名密码，返回运营商网络无效（有必要测？）
+ Validness 密码禁用那些字符
+ Functional Test
+ Non-Functional Test 登录时间，友好性：登录失败提示信息？



#### Requirement Review

BA Peer

+ User Story
+ User Behaviours
+ Edge Case
+ Possible Errors
+ Platform (Multi-devices)



#### Design Review

Designer Peer

+ UI design reflect company's image
+ Intuitive 直观
+ User Experience
+ Aesthetic 审美
+ Responsiveness 不同大小的屏幕



#### Code Review

Developer Peer

+ Architecture
+ Data Structure
+ Algorithm
+ Error handing
+ Compatibility



#### Walkthrough (30 mins)

Informal meetings, where participants come to the meeting and the author gives the presentation.

+ Objective:
  + To **detect defects** and **become familiar with the material**
+ Elements:
  + A planned meeting where only the presenter must prepare
  + A team of 2-7 people, led by the author
  + Author usually the presenter.
+ Inputs:
  + Element under examination, objectives for the walkthroughs applicable standards.
+ Output:
  + Defect report, concerns, questions, clarifications

Only presenters need to prepare, people with different knowledge involved.

没有相关背景的人也会被邀请，让不同背景的人一起来审查。

好处：发现一些潜在缺陷的；团队成员更熟悉产品，比如开发看了 UI 的设计。



#### Inspection

Formal meeting, characterized by individual preparation by all participants prior to the meeting.

+ Objectives:
  + To obtain defects and collect data.
  + To communicate important work product information.
+ Elements:
  + A planned, structured meeting requiring individual preparation by all participants.
  + A team of people, led by an impartial moderator who assure that rules are being followed and review is effective.
  + Presenter is "reader" other than the author.
  + Other participants are inspectors who review,
  + Recorder to record defects identified in work product

All the participates need to prepare

与 Walkthrough 的区别，所有人都要准备

结构化的会议：会议第一项、第二项...是什么都安排好了。



#### Checklists: the verification tool (50 mins)

+ An important tool specially in formal meetings like inspections
+ They provide maximum leverage on verification
+ There are generic checklists that can be applied at a high level and maintained for each type of inspection
+ There are checklists for requirements, functional design specifications, internal design specifications, for code

Acceptance level of Design, Spec, Implementation, Testing, Environment, External info or supports



## 面试题

1. Verification 和 Validation 的区别是什么？请举例说明。

   Verification includes all the activities associated with producing high-quality software: testing, inspection, design analysis, specification analysis, and so on. It is a relatively objective process. When the various products and documents are expressed precisely enough, no subjective judgements should be needed in order to verify software.

   In contrast, validation is an extremely subjective process. It involves making subjective assessments of how well the system addresses a real-world need. Validation includes activities such as requirements modelling, prototyping and user evaluation.

2. Peer Review 的目的是什么？Review 的对象可以有哪些？

   The purpose of technical peer reviews is to remove defects as early as possible in the development process. There are different review objects during different phases.
   
   In the requirement analysis phase, requirements documents should be reviewed.
   
   In the design phase, design documents should be reviewed.
   
   In the development phase, codes should be reviewed.
   
   In the testing phase, test plans and procedures should be reviewed.