#### Why do faults occur in software?

There are several reasons specifications are the largest bug producer. In many instances a spec simply isn't written. Other reasons may be that the spec isn't thorough enough, it's constantly changing, or it's not communicated well to the entire development team.

Bugs sometimes has nothing to do with the experiences of developers (7+ years, 10+ years)

出问题最多的是在写规格文档阶段，其次是设计阶段。

场景转换时容易出问题，因为规格文档中没有信息描述。

Other - 比如说用了第三方的东西，如果那个东西出问题了。



#### What is Testing?

+ Testing is a process used to identify the correctness, completeness and quality of developed computer software. Testing, apart from finding errors, is also used to test performance, safety, fault-tolerance or security.
+ Software testing is a broad term that covers a variety of processes designed to ensure that software applications function as intended, are able to handle the volume required, and integrate correctly with other software applications.
+ The key thing in Testing is not testing but analysing.



#### Reliability versus faults

**Reliability:** the probability that software will not cause the failure of the system for a specified time under specified conditions

+ Can a system be fault-free? (zero faults, right first time) --> No
+ Can a software system be reliable but still have faults? --> Yes
+ Is a "fault-free" software application always reliable? --> No any fault-free is under a specified conditions

**MTBF** Mean Time Between Failure

MTBF 越长说明稳定性越好，



#### What do software faults cost?

越晚发现 bug，修改这个 bug 的成本约大。比如代码写好了，发现规格书中有些东西与客户期望不一样，那设计、代码都要重来。费用方面讲了：

+ Huge sums
  + Ariane 5 $7billion
  + Mariner space probe to Venus $250million
  + American Airlines $50million
+ Very little or nothing at all
  + minor inconvenience
  + no visible or physical detrimental impact
+ Software is not "linear"
  + small input may have very large effect

#### Safety-critical systems

**Software faults can cause death or injury**

+ radiation treatment kills patients
+ train driver killed
+ aircraft crashes (Airbus & Korean Airlines)
+ bank system overdraft letters cause suicide



#### So why is testing necessary?

+ because software is likely to have faults --> Yes
+ to learn about the reliability of the software --> Yes
+ to fill the time between delivery of the software and the release date --> No
+ to prove that the software has no faults --> No
+ because testing is included in the project plan --> No
+ because failures can be very expensive --> Yes
+ to avoid being sued by customers --> Yes
+ to stay in business --> Yes



#### 测试

1. 当软件出现 bug，出现质量问题，这是开发人员的问题吗？

   有可能是开发人员的问题，但大部分问题来自产品规格文档。（商业文档、需求说明）

   Probably, but most bugs come from where is not clear in the specification.

2. 是什么原因造成了软件 bug 的产生？其中最大的原因是什么？

   可能造成软件 bug 产生的原因有：

   + 产品规格书对业务描述不清楚；
   + 设计时不考虑将来，只考虑这样做能不能 work，缺乏扩展性；
   + 代码造成软件问题
   + 第三方引用

   其中最大的原因是软件规格书中描述不清。

   There are 3 major things might cause bugs:

   a. There are unclear descriptions in software specifications. It means that the team do not clear what clients wanted. (The requirement documents doesn't describe clearly. So the team cannot get what clients wanted.)

   b. Some mistakes in design phase.

   c. There are mistakes in codes.

   There are some other things could cause bugs. For example, a project use a third party library, and there are bugs in that library.

   I think the most important one is unclear descriptions in requirement documents.

3. 软件测试是测试什么？

   Software testing is testing the correctness, completeness and quality of developed software. It is also testing performance, safety, fault-tolerance or security.

4. 我们说一个系统是稳定的是否代表这个系统是没有 bug 存在？

   A reliable software does not mean there is no bug.

   Software reliability is the probability that software will work properly in a specified condition and for a given amount of time.

   It related to the mean time between failures (MTBF).

   MTBF consists of mean time to failure (MTTF) and mean time to repair (MTTR).

   MTTF is the difference of time between two consecutive failures and MTTR is the time required to fix the failure.

   So, the shorter MTBF the better reliability of the software.

   It also means any software has bugs, and there will be failure sometime.

   > reliable  / riˈlaiəbl / **adj**
   >
   > consist  / kənˈsist /
   >
   > consecutive  / kənˈsekjətiv / **adj.**

5. 为什么说 bug 要越早发现越好？

   The earlier the bug is discovered, the less it needs to be done for fixing it. For example, if a bug is discovered before the software designed, only some descriptions in the software specification should be modified. But if it discovered after codes have done, the designs and codes should be fixed too.
   
   If a unclear description is found before design phase, only specification should be modified. But if it is found after development phase, the design work and code should be fixed, too.