#### Testing and Quality

+ Testing measures software quality
+ Testing can find faults; when they are removed, software quality (and possibly reliability) is improved

软件的稳定性能在提高



#### Testing Object (3 分钟)

Software Testing does not equal to Application Testing

+ Requirement analysis
+ Business rule
+ UI design
+ Application design
+ Specification
+ Source code
+ Application
+ Performance
+ Security
+ Reliability
+ Etc.



#### Other factors that influence testing (19 分钟)

+ Contractual requirements
+ Legal requirements
+ Industry-specific requirements
  + e.g. pharmaceutical industry (FDA), compiler standard tests, safety-critical or safety-related such as railroad switching, air traffic control



> It is difficult to determine how much testing is enough but it is not impossible

#### Not all the bugs can be fixed (24 分钟)

+ not having enough time, 比如明天就要上市了，bug 可以先记录下。看市场反馈，是否打到商业目标，投入回报比，如果达到了，以后可以修改；看用户反馈，对用户影响如果不大。
+ not a bug, 测试人员判断失误；
+ too risky if fix that bug, side effect，修改后可能会引发风险更大的问题，side effect 比如修改核心代码，测试工作非常大
+ not worth fixing, edge case，比如说

fixing a bug should be determined by all the stakeholder, including Dev, Test, PM, BA, even business people.



#### Rules for software testing (38 分钟)

Test plan should be written down before doing any testing what is test plan
If you cannot use your own language to explains the changes, which means you do not understand the changes very well, how can you write down the test plan and test it.

Every single test should be checked thoroughly

Keep and save the test plan, test case, error stats, and error trend analysing report

Developing should avoid to test his own application.



#### 面试题

1. 软件测试与软件质量的关系是什么？

   Testing measures software quality. Testing could find faults, when the faults are fixed software quality is improved.

2. 我们知道测试活动是发生在软件开发的整个生命周期里，请列出在软件开发生命周期里，测试活动的测试对象有哪些？并说明对于这些对象进行的测试目的是什么？

   In the whole lifecycle of software developing, testing objects include Requirement analysis document, Business rule, UI design, Specification, Source code, Application, Performance, Security, Reliability, and so on.

   For the requirement analysis document and business rule, the purpose of testing is to ensure that the process is clear, comprehensive and not self-contradictory.，

   For the UI design document, the purpose of testing is to ensure it meet the requirement document and could provide a good user experience.

   For application design document and specification, the purpose of testing is to ensure it meet the requirement document.

   For source code and application, the purpose of testing is to ensure it meet the specification.

   Testing also needs to ensure that the software has good performance, security and stability.

   

3. 当测试人员找到软件问题（Bug）时，软件问题（Bug）是一定需要被修复（fix）的吗？

   Not all bugs must be fixed. There could be some reasons for not fix a bug.

   + Firstly, there is not enough time to fix it. For example, a bug was found just one day before release. So the software could be released without fixing the bug. 比如明天就要上市了，bug 可以先记录下
   + Then if fixing a bug might cause more serious bugs, the bug may not be fixed.
   + Last one is it is not worth to fix a bug. For example, the probability of occurring a bug is very small. But fixing the bug requires a lot of developing and testing. So the bug may be not fixed.

4. 软件测试的原则有哪些？

   There are four major rules for software testing.

   Firstly, test plan should be written down before doing any testing.

   Then, every single test should be checked thoroughly.

   Then, the test plan, test case, error stats, and error trend analysing report should be saved. So they could be reviewed if necessary.

   The last one is developers should avoid to test their own application.

   