## 讲课

#### Performance Testing

In software engineering, performance testing is in general, a testing practice performed to determine how a system performs in terms of responsiveness and stability under a particular workload. 

CPU: 占用率；

Memory: Memory Leak

​	堆里面的内存不释放的话，系统越来越慢，最后崩溃。栈内存主要由系统释放。

​	检查内存泄漏，拍照前后内存状态应该没有变化。

Network: Data Consumption / Throughput

UI: Responsiveness 相应时间 / Respond Time 反馈时间 / FPS 每秒帧数

Battery: Battery Comsumption / Idle 

​	装不装应用来对比电量损耗情况。



性能测试流程

+ Performance Benchmark set up 设置标杆，可以量化
+ Performance Testing
+ Performance Optimising (Optional) 性能调优
  + software 算法、架构等，找到瓶颈在哪
  + Hardware 升级硬件



#### Stress Testing (22 min)

Stress testing (sometimes called torture 拷打 testing) is a form of deliberately intense or thorough testing used to determine the stability of a given system or entity. It involves testing beyond normal operational capacity, often to a breaking point, in order to observe the results. Reasons can include: 

+ to determine breaking points or safe usage limits
+ to confirm mathematical model is accurate enough in predicting breaking points or safe usage limits
+ to confirm intended specifications are being met
+ ot determine medes of failure (how exactly a system fails)
+ to test stable operation of a part or system outside standard usage

测试方法

1. Generate load for the request from a single user.
2. Simulate thousands, millions, concurrent user request.
3. Observe and collect the response
4. Optimising 一般只能添加硬件

DDos Attack

A denial-of-service attack is a cyber-attack where the perpetrator seeks to make a mechine or network resource unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely



#### Configuration Testing (39 min)

Configuration testing is the method of testing an application with multiple combinations of software and hardware to find out the optimal configurations that the system can work without any flaws or bugs.

+ Creation of matrix which consists of various combinations of software and hardware configurations

+ Prioritising the configurations as its difficult to test all the configurations.

+ Testing every configuration based on prioritisation



#### Compatibility Testing (Software) 42 min

Compatibility Testing is a type of Software testing to check whether your software is capable of running on different hardware, operating systems, applications , network environments, etc.



#### Compatibility Testing (hardware) 47 min



兼容性测试方法

+ Device list based on the market or regions popularity
+ OS list based on the market or regions popularity



#### Acceptance Testing (50 min)

Formal testing with respect to user needs, requirements, and business processes conducted to determine  whether or not a system satisfies the acceptance criteria and to enable the user, customers or other authorised entity to determine whether or not to accept the system.

Acceptance Testing always happens at the last stage before the project delivery

Acceptance testing may assess the system readiness for deployment and use.

The goal is to establish confidence in the system, parts of system or non-functional characteristics of the system.



**Types of Acceptance Testing:**

+ User Acceptance Testing

  Acceptance Test Cases / Checklist (Client, Outsourcing)

+ Alpha and Beta Testing

  Alpha Testing (Internal Acceptance Testing) is performed by members of the organisation that developed the software but who are not directly involved in the project (Development or Testing). Usually, it is the members of Product Management, Sales and/or Customer Support.

  Beta Testing (External Acceptance Testing) is performed by people who are not employees of the organisation that developed the software.They are the ones who asked the organisation to develop the software. They can be the customers themselves or the customers’ customers.



#### Objectives of Different Types of Testing (57 min)

+ In development Testing, main objective is **to cause as many failures as possible** (Unit, Integrate, Functional, System)
+ In Acceptance Testing, main objective is **to confirm that system work as expected.** (Alpha, Beta Testing)
+ In Maintenance Testing, main objective is **to make sure that no new errors have been introduced.** (compatibility, new OS or hardware)
+ In Operational Testing, main objective may be **to access system characteristics such as reliability and availability.**



## 面试题

1. 请解释并举例子什么叫性能(Performance)测试

   Performance testing is a type of testing to ensure applications will perform well under the expected workload. It focus on:

   + **Speed**, whether the application responds quickly
   + **Scalability**, the maximum user load the software application can handle
   + **Stability**, whether the application is stable under varying loads.

   For example, a performance testing for CPU usage is checking CPU usage before and after the application running.

2. 请解释并举例子什么叫压力(Stress)测试

   Stress Testing is a type of testing that verified the stability of a given system. It mainly determines the system under extremely heavy load conditions. It involves testing beyond normal operational capacity, often to a breaking point, in order to observe the results. 

   For a web site, a tester could simulate thousands, millions, concurrent user request then observe and collect the response from the web site.

3. 请解释并举例子什么叫兼容性(Compatibility)测试

   Compatibility Testing is a type of Software testing to check whether a software can run on different hardware, operating systems, network environments, and so on.

   A web site, for example, we can test it by different browsers, like IE, Chrome, Firefox and different devices, like computer, tablet, mobile phone.

   > Compatibility / kəmˌpætəˈbiləti / noun

4. 请解释并举例子什么叫接受性(Acceptance)测试

   Acceptance Testing is a type of testing performed by the Client or the authorised entity to certify the system with respect to the requirements. This testing happens in the final phase of testing before moving the application to the Market.

   Acceptance Testing is a formal testing with respect to user needs, requirements, and business processes conducted to determine  whether or not a system satisfies the acceptance criteria and to enable the user, customers or other authorised entity to determine whether or not to accept the system.
   
   For a video game, players would be invited to test it before it is released.
   
   Before a video game releasing, many players are invited to test it normally.
   
   > authorize / ˈɔːθəraiz / **verb** 
   >
   > entity / ˈentəti / noun
   >
   > satisfy / ˈsætisfai / **verb**
   >
   > determine  / diˈtəːmin / **verb**