## 讲课

#### Validation Strategies

Two main strategies for validating software

+ White Box testing
+ Black Box testing



#### White Box Testing

盒子里的一切都看的清清楚楚。

+ Deals with the internal logic and structure of the code
+ The tests are written based on the white box testing strategy incorporate coverage of the code written, branches, paths, statements and internal logic of the code etc.
+ Normally done the developers

**White Box Testing can be done by:** Data Coverage, Code Coverage

对砖头进行测试或对房屋进行测试。



#### Data Coverage

Data flow is monitored or examined through out the program. E.g. watch window we use to monitor the value of the variables and expressions.

比如说 QQ 登录，有效帐号分为几种类型：普通、VIP、。我们写个程序来验证不同帐号，产品的返回值。



#### Code Coverage

+ It's a process of finding areas of a program not exercised by a set of test cases.
+ Creating additional test cases to increase coverage
+ Code coverage can be implemented using basic measure like, statement coverage, decision coverage, condition coverage and path coverage

statement coverage, decision coverage (15 min), condition coverage (21 min) and path coverage (25 min)



#### Black Box Testing (28 min)

+ Does not need any knowledge of internal design or code
+ Its totally based on the testing for the requirements and functionality of the work product / software application.
+ Tester is needed to be thorough with the requirement specifications of the system and as a user, should know how the system should behave in response to the particular action.



Commonly used Black Box methods:

+ Equivalence partitioning
+ Boundary-value analysis
+ Error guessing



#### Equivalence Partitioning

+ An equivalence class is a subset of data that is representative of a larger class.
+ Equivalence partitioning is a technique for testing equivalence classes rather than undertaking exhaustive testing of each value of the larger class.

If we expect the same result from two tests, you consider them equivalent. A group of tests from an equivalence class if,

+ They all test the same thing
+ If one test catches a bug, the others probably will too
+ If one test doesn't catch a bug, the others probably won't either

Equivalence classes may be defined according to the following guidelines:

+ If an input condition specifies a range, one valid and two invalid equivalence classes are defined.
+ If an input condition requires a specific value, then one valid and two invalid equivalence classes are defined.
+ If an input condition is Boolean, then on valid and one invalid equivalence class are defined.



#### Boundary value analysis

A technique that consists of developing test cases and data that focus on the input and output boundaries of a given function.

In same credit limit example, boundary analysis would test:

+ Low boundary plus or minus one ($9,999 and $10,001)
+ On the boundary ($10,000 and $15,000)
+ Upper boundary plus or minus one ($14,999 and 15,001)

Large number of errors tend to occur at boundaries of the input domain

Boundary value analysis leads to selection of test cases that exercise boundary values

Boundary value analysis complements equivalence partitioning. Rather than select any element in an equivalence class, select those at the "edge" of the class

Examples:

+ For a range of values boundary by a and b, test a-1, a, a+1, b-1, b, b+1
+ If input conditions specify a number of values n, test with n-1, n and n+1 input values
+ Apply 1 and 2 to output conditions (e.g., generate table of minimum and maximum size)



## 面试题

1. 请解释什么叫白盒测试

   White box testing is a testing method which deals with the internal logic and structure of the code. The internal structure or design or implementation of the program is known to the tester. The tests are written based on the white box testing strategy incorporate coverage of the code written, branches, paths, statements and internal logic of the code etc.

2. 请解释什么叫黑盒测试

   Black box testing is totally based on the testing for the requirement and functionality of the work product or software application. Tester is needed to be thorough with the requirement specifications of the system and as a user; should know how the system should behave in response to the particular action.

3. 请解释什么叫等价类划分(Equivalence Partitioning)

   Equivalence partitioning is a technique for testing equivalence classes rather than undertaking exhaustive testing of each value of the larger class. An equivalence class is a subset of data that is representative of a larger class.

   

4. 有一个输入框，允许用户输入 1 到 6 个英文字符或数字，请用等价类划分的方法，划分出有效等价类和无效等价类。

   Valid equivalence classes:

   + One to six characters
   + One to six numbers
   + One to six combinations of characters and numbers

   Invalid equivalence classes:

   + Empty
   + Space
   + Special characters
   + Emoji
   + More than six characters or numbers

   老师的建议：数字和字母组合再有效和无效等价类都要考虑哈，用户的输入是不确定的，所以在分析等价类的时候要尽量多尽量广得去考虑。

5. 请解释什么叫边界值分析(Boundary value analysis)？

   Boundary value analysis is a technique that consists of developing test cases and data that focus on the input and output boundaries of a given function.

6. 请用边界值分析法设计测试用例，假定 X 为整数，10 <= X <= 100，那么 X 在测试中应该取哪些边界值？

   It should take these boundary values

   + Low boundary plus and minus one: 9, 11;
   + On the boundary: 10, 100;
   + Upper boundary plus and minus one: 99, 101.

> 老师的建议，在测试用例设计中，考虑边界值的时候，应该这样做：
>
> Below the boundary： 9，99
>
> On the boundary： 10， 100
>
> Upper the boundary： 11， 101