## Basic

Day 01 ~ Day 05

#### 为什么需要软件测试/软件测试与软件质量的关系

Testing measures software quality. Testing could find faults. When the faults are fixed, software quality is improved.

#### 说说对 Bug 的定义和理解

A bug is that a software do some unexpected things or cannot meet expected requirements.

A bug could be an error, a fault or a failure. When an error is made by someone, it creates a fault in the software and then could cause a failure in operation.

#### Bug 产生的原因

The reasons could come from developers and external factors.

Firstly, no one is perfect. So anyone might make mistakes.

On the other hand, working under great pressure or without enough time may cause more bugs produced. For example, a video game called E.T. published by Atari had only 5 and half weeks for developing. That might be why it became one of the worst video games.

There are three major things may cause bugs:

First one is where is unclear in the requirement documents. So the whole team might be not clear what is clients wanted. How to meet clients requirements?

Second one is mistake in design phase. It may cause bugs in final product.

The last one is mistake in codes.

The most important one is the first one.

#### 软件一定需要测试么



#### 所有的 Bug 都需要修复么

Not all bugs must be fixed. There could be some reasons for not fix a bug.

+ Firstly, there is not enough time to fix it. Like, a bug was found jusk one day before release, and its risk level is not very high. So the software could be released without fixing the bug, but recording it.



#### 当软件出现 bug，出现质量问题，这是开发人员的问题么？

Probably, but most bugs come from where is unclear in the requirement specification.



#### 软件测试是测试什么？

Software testing tests the correctness, completeness and quality of developed sofware. It also tests performance, safty, fault-tolerance or security.



#### 我们说一个系统是稳定的，是否代表这个系统没有 bug？

A reliable software does not mean there is no bug.

Software reliability is the probability that software will work properly in a specified condition and for a given amount of time.

It related to the mean time between failures (MTBF).

MTBF consists of mean time to failure (MTTF) and mean time to repair (MTTR).

MTTF is the difference of time between two consecutive failures and MTTR is the time required to fix the failure.

So, the shorter MTBF the better reliability of the software.

It also means any software has bugs, and there will be failure sometime.

> reliable  / riˈlaiəbl / **adj**
>
> consist  / kənˈsist /
>
> consecutive  / kənˈsekjətiv / **adj.**



#### 为什么说 bug 要越早发现越好？

The earlier a bug is discovered, the less it will cost to fix it. For example, if a bug is discovered before the software designed, only some descriptions in the software specification should be modified. But if it discovered after codes have done, the designs and codes should be fixed too.

If a unclear description is found before design phase, only specification should be modified. But if it is found in the development phase, the design work and code should be fixed, too.



==Day 03==

#### 你认为成为一个好的测试工程师需要哪些素质，为什么

A good tester should be an explorer, a trouble shooter, tactful and diplomatic.

Firstly, tester not only test a software according the specification, but also beyond it. Bugs often come from where is unclear in the specification. So a good tester should be an explorer to search these unclear places.

Then a good tester should be a trouble shooter. When a bug appears, he should aware it is a bug immediately, and record it as soon as possible. Without this a tester might miss many bugs everyday.

The last one is tactful and diplomatic. For example, when a tester talk with a developer that a bug was found in his codes. The tester may meet with resistance from the developer. But if the tester say he is not sure whether he got the right way, but something strange happened, the developer might aware there is a bug.

> explorer  / ikˈsplɔːrə(r) /
>
> tactful  / ˈtæktfl / **adj.** 
>
> diplomatic  / ˌdipləˈmætik /   resistance  / riˈzistəns / 



#### 为了保证软件的质量，做穷举测试，对么？为什么？

No. The time and budget for any project is limited. So testing everything is impossible. When the testing is enough, we believe the quality of the software is good. How much testing is enough depends on the risks for the system.





==Day 04==

#### 按照优先级来安排测试工作的依据是什么？

The basis for prioritising testing is RISK. We should ensure having enough time to handle important testing.

> prioritize / praiˈɔrətaiz/



#### 请解释风险矩阵的用途，以及风险矩阵中 12 个风险项的意思？分别给出自己的例子

Using risk matrix can clarify the attendant risks and possible consequences of carrying out or bypassing specific test activities. Each item in the matrix could be analysed, then the risk of project could be concluded by the summary of them. There are 12 risk items in the matrix.

> matrix  / ˈmeitriks /
>
> consequences  / ˈkɔnsikwəns /

- The first one is Knowledge of area. It means the more familiar the tester is to the area, the fewer defects will be missed. For example, a tester is going to test a video record software. If he doesn't familiar with it, he might record a video then check whether it is successful. If he know more about how it works, he might check the synchronisation of video and voice and effect of object's speed. 知识储备是什么，比如说项目要实现的商业目标；
- Next one is Reputation. It means when a problem occurs how much it will affect company's reputation. If a report of a bug spread on the Internet, it will seriously affect the company's reputation. 名望，外部对公司形象的损失，对个人的信誉度。比如一个 bug 被用户发现后在互联网传播，对公司品牌形象的损失就很大。
- Next one is Impact on Users. It means how serious is a bug affect users. If the software is for medical use, it may take away the patient's life. However, if the software is for entertainment, it is not so serious.用户多的时候风险大。
- Next one is Loss of Money. It means the more loss could be, the more risk is. If one bug could cause a building collapse and the other one could cause a bulb burned down. So the former bug is more risky.
- Next one is Type of Change. Different types of modifications have different effects on the system. For example, modifications of UI may not affect other parts of the system. But a modification for a interface in the server side might affect many modules. 现在的系统都比较复杂，负载均衡，传到服务。。简单的工作背后的。。。是相当复杂的。Bug 修改后，就带来了一定的风险。比如 UI 修改了，风险就较低。比如服务器端，接口修改，那么风险就比较大。
- Next one is Security. When a security problem occurs, whether it could cause serious results or not. For example, if a software is involving bank account and password. Its security risk might be high as it may cause huge money loss. 银行，账户转账，功能简单，但是安全出问题的话影响较大。缓冲区溢出，发送大量的 xxx。比如娱乐性的项目，不涉及金钱、账号等，安全性可能较低。
- Next one is Regression of Existing features. When a bug is fixed, it might affect other parts of the system. If its effect is wide, many regression test should be done. So this type of risk could be high. 考虑回归测试的工作量，如果会影响整个系统的部分，其风险应评为高。
- Next one is High Traffic. This risk depends on the amount of users. For example, almost all Chinese are using WeChat. If any problem occurs, it might affect huge users. So this type of risk should be high. 比如微信，用户非常庞大。
- Next one is Detectability of failures. When a problem occurs whether it is detectability. If a problem is serious but not detectability, it will be a high risk. 可排查性。
- Next one is Ability to revert. It means the difficulty of reverting back to last stable version. For example, a web application could revert back easily, because there is no client program. So this risk could be low.。
- Next one is How visible. It means when problem occurs, whether it is visible for users. If a problem is invisible, it could be fixed before before users realize it. So the risk is low. 当问题发生时，对用户而言是否可见。如果用户看不到，那么影响较小。
- The last one is Blocking. It means when problem occurs, the process cannot continue. For example, if a problem occurs in login module for bank. Any operation should be after login, so customers cannot do any thing. It is blocking. 如果问题出现，客户将不能做其它操作，如果是这样这个地方的风险较大。





## SDLC

==Day 06==

#### 什么是软件的开发周期？

The system development life cycle (SDLC) is a term used to describe a process for planning, creating, testing, and deploying an information system.

>  describe  /diˈskraib/

#### 什么叫做瀑布模型？

The waterfall Model illustrates the software development process in a linear sequential flow. This means that any phase in the development process begins only if the previous phase is complete.  In the waterfall model, the phases do not overlap. 

> illustrates  /ˈiləstreit /  
>
> sequential /siˈkwenʃl/ following in order of time or place
>
> flow  /fləu/
>
> overlap  /ˌəuvəˈlæp/



#### 瀑布模型有什么优缺点？





## Testing Concepts

Day10 ~ Day 14

#### 请解释什么叫白盒测试

White box testing is a testing method which deals with the internal logic and structure of the code. The tester knows the internal structure or design or implementation of the program. The tests are written based on the white box testing strategies incorporate coverage of the code written, branches, paths, statements and internal logic of the code.

[could jump to 白盒测试包括哪些]

> known  /nəun/
>
> know  /nəu/
>
> strategy  /ˈstrætədʒi/



#### 请解释什么叫黑盒测试

Black box testing is totally based on software requirements and specification. Tester is needed to be thorough with the requirement specification of the system and as a user should know the system should behave in response to the particular action.

>  thorough  /ˈθʌrə/

Black box testing is totally based on software requirements and specification. It tests the software without looking at the internal code structure, implementation details and knowledge of internal paths of the software.

[Types of Black Box Testing]



#### 请解释什么叫等价类划分

Equivalence partitioning is a technique for testing equivalence classes rather than undertaking exhaustive testing of each value of the larger class. An equivalence class is a subset of data that is representative of  a larger class

> representative  /ˌrepriˈzentətiv/ a person who has been chosen to speak or vote for sb else or on behalf of a group

Equivalence partitioning is a software testing technique that ==divides== the input data of a software unit into partitions of equivalent data from which test cases can be derived. It tests equivalence classes rather than undertaking exhaustive testing of each value of the larger class. And the Boudary Value Analysis will be used to choose a few values from each equivalence class.

> partition  /pɑːˈtiʃn/
>
> derive  /diˈraiv/  to come or develop from sth
>
> exhaustive  /igˈzɔːstiv/



#### 请解释什么叫边界值分析

Boundary value analysis is a technique that consists of developing test cases and data that focus on the input and output boundaries of a given function.

For example, the valid value should be between 10 and 100. These value should be tested:

+ Below the boundary are 9 and 99;
+ On the boundary are 10 and 100;
+ Upper the boundary are 11 and 101.



#### 请解释什么叫探索性测试

Exploratory testing is a type of testing that test cases are not created in advance but testers check system on the fly. Testers may note down ideas about what to test before test execution.



#### 请列举开发在写代码时经常会犯的一些错误

Common mistakes from developer include:

+ No data input validation;
+ Boundaries not checked, like very big or very small values;
+ Missing error handling
+ Interface errors when module works whith other modules
+ Problems with invalid characters
+ Problems with empty values
+ Problems with string too long
+ Problems with data combination not obvious

No data input validation, boundaries not checked, like very big or very small values,

Missing error handling, interface errors when module works with other modules

Problems with invallid values, problems with string too long, problems with empty values

#### 白盒测试和黑盒测试分别包括了哪些测试类型

Whith box testing includes Unit Testing and Integration Testing.

Black box testing includes Functional Testing, System Testing and Acceptance Testing.

#### 什么是集成测试

Integration testing is a type of testing where program units are combined and tested as groups in multiple ways. It can expose problems with the interfaces among program components. Like a web application, the login page is tested with the home page in a integration testing.

~~In this context, a unit is defined as the smallest testable part of an application.~~ 

#### 什么是功能测试

Functional testing is a type of testing which verifies whether the application meets the intended functional specifications laid out the development documentation. It mainly involves black box testing. For example, in login function, a user can login with the correct credentials and can not login with the incorrect credentials.

> credential  /credential/

#### 什么是系统测试

System testing is a type of testing to check the behavior of a complete and fully integrated software product based on the software requirements specification document and hardware & software system. The main focus of this testing is to evaluate Business / Functional / End-use requirements. An independent testing team may carry out System Testing.

For example, a social application need to be tested. It will be put under a mimic or real Environment, including software and hardware. The entire system will be tested including Login System, Security System, Database System, Cache System, and Load Balance System.

> integrate  /ˈintigreit/

#### 什么是可用性测试

Usability Testing is a technique used in user-centred interaction design to evaluate a product by testing it on users. This can be seen as an irreplaceable usability practice, since it gives direct input on how real users use the system.

> interaction  /ˌintərˈækʃn/  互动
>
> irreplaceable  /ˌiriˈpleisəbl /
>
> evaluate  /iˈvæljueit /



==Day 13==

#### 什么是性能测试

Performance testinng is a type of testing to ensure application will perform well under the expected workload. It focus on:

+ Speed, whether the application responds quickly
+ Scalability, the maximum user load the software application can handle
+ Stability, whether the application is stable under varying loads.

For example, a performance testing for CPU usage is checking CPU usage before and after the application running.

> Scalability  /ˌskeɪləˈbɪlɪtɪ /  the ability of something, esp a computer system, to adapt to increased demands
>
> vary  /ˈveəri/  to be different from each other in size, shape, etc.

#### 什么是压力测试

Stress Testing is a type of testing that verified the stability of a given system. It mainly determines the system under extremely heavy load conditions. It involves testing beyond normal operational capacity, often to a breaking point, in order to observe the results. 

For a web site, a tester could simulate thousands, millions, concurrent user request then observe and collect the response from the web site.

> determine  /diˈtəːmin/  to discover the facts about sth; to calculate sth exactly
>
> extremely  /ikˈstriːmli/  [adv] to a very high degree
>
> observe  /əbˈzəːv/  [VN]  to see or notice sb / sth
>
> concurrent  /kənˈkʌrənt/  [adj]  existing or happening at the same time



#### 什么是兼容性测试

Compatibility Testing is a type of Software testing to check whether a software can run on different hardware, operating systems, network environments, and so on.

A web site, for example, we can test it by different browsers, like IE, Chrome, Firefox and different devices, like computer, tablet, mobile phone.

> Compatibility / kəmˌpætəˈbiləti / noun



#### 什么是接受性测试

Acceptance Testing is a type of testing performed by the Client or authorised entity to certify the system with respect to the requirements. This testing happens in the final phase of testing before moving the application to the Market.

Acceptance Testing is a formal testing with respect to user needs, requirements, and business processes conducted to determine whether or not a system satisfies the acceptance criteria and to enable the user, customers or other authorised entity to determine whether or not to accept the system.

For a video game, players would be invited to test it before it is released.

> authorize / ˈɔːθəraiz / **verb** 
>
> entity / ˈentəti / noun
>
> satisfy / ˈsætisfai / **verb**
>
> determine  / diˈtəːmin / **verb**



#### 请解释并举例子什么叫回归（Regression）测试

Regression Testing is a type of software testing to confirm that a recent program or code change has not adversely affected existing features and verify that changes or fixes not introduced new problems. It is a full or partial selection of already executed test cases which are re-executed to ensure existing functionalities work fine.

For example, after adding a voice chat feature to an application, the existing text chat function might be tested. 

> regression / riˈgreʃn /
>
> adversely  / æd'vəːsli /
>
> partial  / ˈpɑːʃl /
>
> execute  / ˈeksikjuːt / **verb**



#### 请解释并举例子什么叫冒烟（Smoke）测试

Smoke Testing is a type of software testing that comprises of a non-exhaustive set of tests that aim at ensuring that the basic functions work. The result of this testing is used to decide if a build is stable enough to proceed with further testing.

For example, verify that the application launches successfully, check that the GUI is responsive, and so on.



#### 回归测试（Regression）测试与功能（Function）测试的区别在哪里

Before the functional testing we don't know whether the product meets the intended functional specification or not. The goal of a functional testing is to verify it.

But, a Regression Testing tests those features which was tested before. It might be changed later. Or, some new features was added in the project. So, the Regression Testing will confirm it still works fine and verify that changes or fixes have not introduced new problems.

> verify  / ˈverifai / 



#### 请解释并举例子什么叫本地化测试

Localisation testing is the software testing process for checking the localised version of a product for that particular culture or local settings.

For example, an application released in China should provide a Chinese interface.



#### 请解释并举例子什么叫国际化（Internationalization）测试？

Internationalization testing is to ensure that application can be adapted to various languages and regions without engineering changes.

For example, an international website offers multiple language options.

> adapt  / əˈdæpt / **verb** 



## Test Planning

Day 14 ~ Day 16

#### 一个测试计划里应该包括哪些内容？

A test planning includes 3 phases, Project Analysis, Testing Plan, and Testing.

+ In the Project Analysis phase, it includes Requirement Analysis, Requirement Testing, Quality Risk Assessment, and so on.
+ In the Testing Plan phase, it includes Release Schedule, Resource Planning, Test Plan, Test Cases Design, and so on.
+ In the Testing phase, it includes Testing Report, Test Cases, Functional Testing, and Non-Functional Testing.

#### 在做测试计划时要考虑哪些情况？

The following things need to be considered when planning a test:

+ Scope management;
+ Deciding test strategy;
+ Setting Entry / Exit Criteria;
+ Identifying Skill Sets;
+ Identifying Environment Needs;
+ Identifying test deliverable;
+ Test script and scheduling;
+ Risk management;
+ Comments from Management;
+ Preparing a test plan;

#### 测试的进入条件（Entry Criteria）和退出条件（Exit Criteria）指的是什么？

Entry criteria defines when to start testing. It may consist of an approved testing plan, all resources available, and all tests developed.

Exit criteria defines when to stop testing. It may consist of thoroughness measures, estimates of defect density or reliability measures, cost, residual risk, schedules, test cases pass rate, and the density of high-severity defects.

> Criteria  / kraiˈtiəriə /
>
> Exit  /ˈeksit/
>
> measure  /ˈmeʒə(r)/  [VN] to find the size
>
> estimates  /ˈestimət /  [N]  估计
>
> density  /ˈdensəti/
>
> residual  / riˈzidjuəl/  剩余的

#### 测试的范围（Scope）是指什么？

It is what are the areas we are going to check and not check for an application.

#### 设计测试用例（test case design）的方法有哪些？

There are four major methods, Boundary Value Analysis, Equivalence Partitioning, Decision Table, and State Transition.

#### 一个好的测试用例有哪些特征？

A good test case have these characteristics:

+ Accurate, it should clearly describe what will be tested;
+ Economical, it should separate the initiation steps from the steps needed for its purpose.
+ Repeatable, it should give the same results no matter who tests it.
+ Traceable, there should be logs. The requirements document entries associated with a test case can be traced by the logs.
+ Self-cleaning, it will return the test environment to  a start state. So it won't effect other test cases.

> Accurate  /ˈækjərət /
>
> initiation  /iˌniʃiˈeiʃn/



#### 什么叫做测试用例的杀虫剂效应（Pesticide Paradox），如何去规避这样的情况发生？

Pesticide Paradox means that as the tests are run multiple times, they stop been effective in catching bugs. In addition, part of the new defects introduced into the system will not be caught by the existing tests and will be released onto the field.

**There are four major solutions:**

+ Firstly, we should keep track of product changes and their indirect effects in the application.
+ Then, we should discontinue tests that are not effective.
+ Next one is modifying the test data each time.
+ The last one is we should not put all trust and weight on formal approaches only. We could think something not in the requirement document.

> Pesticide  /ˈpestisaid/
>
> paradox  /ˈpærədɔks/
>
> effective  /iˈfektiv/  有效的

#### 用决策表（Decision Table）测试的优势在哪里？

It can effectively reduce the test range based on the classification of the results, at the same time ensuring complete coverage.

 https://www.guru99.com/decision-table-testing.html 

- When the system behavior is different for different input and not same for a range of inputs, both equivalent partitioning, and boundary value analysis won't help, but decision table can be used.
- The representation is simple so that it can be easily interpreted and is used for development and business as well.
- This table will help to make effective combinations and can ensure a better coverage for testing
- Any complex business conditions can be easily turned into decision tables
- In a case we are going for 100% coverage typically when the input combinations are low, this technique can ensure the coverage.

#### 用状态图（State Transition Diagrams）测试的优势在哪里？

In a state table, all the valid states are listed on the left side of the table, and the events that cause them on the top. So, it is easy for us to find out the crucial state transitions and invalid ones that both should be tested. It also can tell us which states are invalid.

 https://www.guru99.com/state-transition-testing.html 

**Advantages**

+  This testing technique will provide a pictorial or tabular representation of system behavior which will make the tester to cover and understand the system behavior effectively. 
+  By using this testing, technique tester can verify that all the conditions are covered, and the results are captured

**Disadvantages**

+  The main disadvantage of this testing technique is that we can't rely in this technique every time. For example, if the system is not a finite system (not in sequential order), this technique cannot be used.
+  Another disadvantage is that you have to define all the possible states of a system. While this is all right for small systems, it soon breaks down into larger systems as there is an exponential progression in the number of states. 



#### 请解释一个 bug/defect 的生命周期

It starts when a defeact is found.

Then it will be reviewed by the lead of the tester or the BA. It may be rejected as it is not a real bug, or deferred as it is not important at that time, or assigned to a developer to fix it.

When the developer starts analysing and working on the defect, the state of the defect becomes Open.

After that it may be rejected as it cannot be reproduced, or deferred as fixing it may cause more problems, or fixed by the developer.

Then it goes to the retest state. If it cannot pass the test, it will back to Open state.

After it pass the test, it will go to Verified state. A regression testing may be performed to verify that it has not introduced new problems.

Finally, it will be closed.

> defer  / diˈfəː(r) / [VN]
>
> verified  / ˈverifai /
>
> regression  / riˈgreʃn /



#### 写一个 bug/defect report，需要在描述里加上哪些内容

These contents should be written in the description part.

+ Build Version, so the developer knows the defect comes from which version;
+ Enviroment, like Software, Hardware and Network;
+ Pre-Condition, like test account;
+ Steps, so others know how to reproduce the defect;
+ Expected Result and Acual Result;
+ Reproducibility, whether it can be reproduced every time;
+ Analysis, like what are the effects;
+ Attachment, like UI screenshot, Crash log.

>  description  /diˈskripʃn/



#### 自动化测试有哪些优势？

There are four major advantages.

First one is it frees up the tester's time.

Then it could increase the confidence. When all automated checks in a test suite pass, the tester knows the application works well basically.

Next one is it is efficient. For the full regression testing, automation test can be running at night, and the project team can get the testing feedback next day morning.

The last one is testers could get a feedback quickly. By an automated smoke testing, the tester could quickly know the application is prepared for more testing.

> efficient  / iˈfiʃnt / **adj.**
>
> confidence  /ˈkɔnfidəns /



#### 自动化测试有哪些劣势？

There are five major disadvantages.

Firstly, the test scripts need to be developed. Sometimes, it is time consuming.

Then, it will create false sense of quality. There could be major flaws undetected, because it cannot look for those failures, such as UI issue.

It may be not reliable, because for the code changes, UI changes, and different environments.

Testers will need to spend the time upgrading the relevant tests as the application is upgraded.

The last one is that it cannot find many bugs. For example, the automated regression test always follow a given path and even the same set of test data. It reduces the chance of finding new defects in the application.

> consume  / kənˈsjuːm / **VN**
>
> sense  / sens /
>
> flaw  /flɔː/
>
> reliable  / riˈlaiəbl / **adj.** 
>
> relevant  / ˈreləvənt / 

